chore(curriculum): adding remaining two transcripts for DOM lectures (#58695)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lecture-understanding-the-event-object-and-event-delegation/67338e93b75977a344cf6d40.md

id: 67338e93b75977a344cf6d40
title: How Do Event Bubbling, and Event Delegation Work?
challengeType: 11
videoId: 4kMcX0If-AY
dashedName: how-do-event-bubbling-and-event-delegation-work
---

# --description--

Watch the video or read the transcript and answer the questions below.

# --transcript--

How do event bubbling, and event delegation work?

Event bubbling, or propagation, refers to how an event `"bubbles up"` to parent objects when triggered. For example, consider this code:

```html
<p>
  <span>Click me~!</span>
</p>
```

The `p` element here would be considered the `"parent"` of the `span` element. 

When you click on the `span` element, like you are instructed to, the `span` element becomes the target of a `click` event. That event, however, also bubbles up to the parent – the `p` element can receive and consume that event as needed.

But what does this actually mean? Well, you could attach an event listener to the `p` element:

```js
const p = document.querySelector("p");
p.addEventListener("click", (event) => {
  console.log(event.target);
});
```

> Then, when you click on the `span` element you will see the text `Click me~!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, when you click on the `span` element you will see the text `Click me~!` logged to the console.
```

The event propagates to the parent `p` element, which consumes it in an event listener to display the target of the event. 

Notice how the target is still the `span` element. This is because the `span` element received the initial click.

Just to be sure how things are working, let's expand our code:

```js
const p = document.querySelector("p");
const span = document.querySelector("span");
p.addEventListener("click", (event) => {
  console.log("P listener: ");
  console.log(event.target);
});
span.addEventListener("click", (event) => {
  console.log("Span listener: ");
  console.log(event.target);
});
```

> This will give you an idea of how the event bubbles up:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give you an idea of how the event bubbles up, here's what you'll see in the console after clicking the `span` element:
```

> Watch the lecture video and answer the questions below.

Author: There is a small issue with the video.
Waiting for it to be fixed, then I will update the video id in this PR
